in this lesson i want to talk about the
purpose of the azure sovereign regions
and i've already referenced this really
at the start of this course when we
talked about there was more than one
azure environment it's not just a
regular commercial cloud
in fact we ran a command to actually see
there were different environments if we
jump back over to that
here if i do my get
a z
environment
we'll see once again that yes there's
not just the regular azure cloud we
think about
there's also azure us government
azure china cloud
and also this azure german cloud
and a key point is each of these have
their own endpoints
we can see how to actually go and
interact with the cloud
and they also have their own azure ad
endpoints to integrate with azure active
directory
so this is really stressing the point
that each of these are completely
independent they are isolated physically
they're different data centers different
networks they're isolated logically
different authentication completely
different sets of services they're all
running azure
but they are completely different
instances different sets of hardware
different communications etc
now the reason we have this is there are
certain circumstances where there might
be certain regulatory security
requirements
that maybe can't be met in the regular
commercial cloud or it's not logical to
try and meet it for example i might have
requirements that
any personnel interacting with the
service
has to be us-based well that doesn't
make sense to try and do that for every
azure region in commercial so hey usgov
cloud for example we can meet that
so the whole point here is for example
azure government this is being used by
u.s federal agencies state and local
government or solution providers that
work with those agencies they can also
use that gov cloud
now the key point here for example for
the gov cloud is it meets some
additional certifications
for example if we go and jump over for a
second
things like the criminal justice
information services security policy
cgis but also itar ios 1075 dod
level four
fed ramp higher but regular azure also
meets fedramp high
but we can see here well there were
these certain ones all about u.s
government
outlined
down here
and then we can look at the detail
and it will tell us all about what it is
and then tell us the particular
services that will meet this particular
requirement so it's saying as a
government but not kind of regular azure
commercial
whereas if i was to look at fedramp
or fedramp
although yes that's definitely met by
azure government it is also available in
regular azure
but the key point here is azure
government is a completely isolated set
of
physical buildings infrastructure
instances of the services different
authentication
so it's a lot more controlled on who my
neighbors might be
and they have to approve to get those
service providers in there and because
it is a different set of infrastructure
with their own regions
there can be other compliance offerings
they can meet from that
then we have china so china has very
strict requirements about who is allowed
to operate and own the services within
the country
so in this case for china it's actually
operated by 21 vietnam it's not operated
by microsoft microsoft are licensing the
azure technology 221 vnet who run the
that azure region so it's running azure
software but it's not actually operated
by microsoft it's not allowed to within
that country
so the point of those sovereign regions
are to meet the requirements of a
particular customer base u.s government
have certain requirements and
certifications that i need to be met by
this isolated set of physical buildings
and infrastructure that can be meet
additional regulatory requirements
china has policies around who can
actually operate that service so it's
run by 21 via net
there's also the german cloud but the
german actual sovereign cloud is not
really being used for new customers now
microsoft deployed new general regions
to germany that are just part of the
commercial cloud that meet sort of
evolving requirements of the germany
data sovereignty so there's multiple
regular regions in germany so yes that
german cloud exists it's not something
that's been onboarded for new customers
the commercial regions can meet those
requirements so that's the goal of those
azure sovereign clouds